# Facial Recognition and Attendance System Using OpenCV

Attendance is an important part of daily classroom declaration for the teacher for his smooth running of class.A face recognition system is one of the biometric information processes, its applicability is easier and working range is larger than others, i.e. fingerprint, iris scanning, signature, etc. A face recognition system is designed, executed and tested at Atılım University, Mechatronics Engineering Department. The system uses a combination of techniques in two topics; face detection and recognition. The face detection is implemented on live acquired images without any application field in mind. Processes utilized in the system are white balance correction, skin like region segmentation, facial feature extraction and face image extraction on a face candidate. Then a face classification method that uses Feed Forward Neural Network is combined in the system. The system assembles the faces from database and matches it with faces. System can also capable of detecting and recognizing multiple faces in live acquired images with some improvisation. Also a database has been created which record the names in an excel sheet to maintain attendance record for future uses. This project can be used in school, collage and even big company to record attendance with genuine and real results.

System used : We have conducted our experiment on Jupiter Notebook and Python (version 3.10.5). The system configuration is Intel i5, clocked at 2.5 GHz with 8 GB RAM, 128 GB SSD and Windows 11 operating system to validate our proposed algorithm.

Library : Python, opencv, face detection, face-recognition, exel and etc.
